[[Category:Tutorials]] [[Category:Language]]
Haskell is a computer programming language.  In particular, it is a
'' [[Polymorphism|polymorphically]] [[typing|statically typed]], [[Lazy evaluation|lazy]], [[functional programming|purely functional]] '' language,
quite different from most other programming languages. 
The language is named for [[Haskell Brooks Curry]], whose work in mathematical logic serves as a foundation for
functional languages.   
Haskell is based on the ''[[lambda calculus]]'', hence the lambda we use as a logo.


==Why use Haskell?==
Writing large software systems that
work is difficult and expensive.  Maintaining those systems is even
more difficult and expensive.  Functional programming languages, such
as Haskell, can make it easier and cheaper.  For example, a new user who
wrote a small relational DBMS in Haskell had this to say:
<blockquote>
WOW!  I basically wrote this without testing just thinking about my
program in terms of transformations between types.  I wrote the
test/example code and had almost no implementation errors in the code!  The
compiler/type-system is really really good at preventing you from
making coding mistakes!  I've never in my life had a block of code
this big work on the first try.  I am WAY impressed.
</blockquote>
Even if you are not in a position to use Haskell in your programming projects, learning Haskell can make you a better programmer in any language.  
<blockquote>
I learned Haskell a couple of years ago, having previously programmed in
Python and (many) other languages.  Recently, I've been using Python for a
project (the choice being determined by both technical and non-technical
issues), and find my Python programming style is now heavily influenced (for the better, I hope ;-) by my Haskell programming experience.<br><br>
Graham Klyne
</blockquote>